added guidance note for rep checks (#40)
worldbank/dime-standards: dime-research-standards/pillar-3-research-reproducibility/checklists/tex/reproducibility-package-guidance-note.tex

\input{checklist-header.tex}

% ------------------------------ End of preamble ---------------------------------------------
\begin{document}
	\begin{fullwidth}

\titleBox{
	\textcolor{white}{\LARGE{\textbf{DIME Analytics \\ Reproducibility Check Guidance Note}} \\

> 	\Large\textbf{{v1.0 - Last updated October 20, 2022}}}

Author: updated in a312f9c

}

	\section*{Reproducibility Check Guidance Note}

> 	The reproducibility check consists of ensuring that the code of a publication produces every analytical output (tables and data visualizations) identically every time it is run and without adding manual adjustments to the results, and that these outputs are the same as the ones included in any publication of the project, such as a working paper. This process is mandatory for all working papers produced by DIME, and optional for other project documents, such as briefs and reports. The reproducibility check is performed by DIME Analytics and is free of charge for any DIME or DIME-affiliated output.

Author: formatted in 58934c6

	\bigskip

	The goal of this review is to ensure the release of reproducible and code, data, and outputs; and therefore make the project more transparent. DIME Analytics typically completes the reproducibility checks within two weeks of submission of the reproducibility package by their respective project teams, and sends the package back with a well-commented reproducibility review document, highlighting all the problems that might break the code, constitute non-reproducible results, or create difficulties to make the code legible. For example, some of these can be:

> 

Author: I removed the list from the document and added a reference to the presentation about frequent reproducibility mistakes, where these items are better explained (acf462c)

	\bigskip

	\begin{itemize}
		\setlength\itemsep{-0.1em}
		\item Lack of specification of file or folder paths
		\item Installation of necessary software or packages
		\item Lack of version and matsize settings in Stata
		\item Analytical outputs are created but they are different to how they are presented in the academic publication
		\item Lack of comments in the code to follow through the operations it conducts
	\end{itemize}

> 	The main task of the review is to make sure that the code runs smoothly in a computer different than where it was developed, and that all the outputs recreated by it exactly match the research outputs shown in the working paper provided.	

Author: removed sentence in 99ac705

DIME Analytics follows specific tasks when conducting the computational reproducibility checks, which are outlined below.

	\subsection{1. \, Receving the reproducibility package}

	The project team will send a code review request via email to DIME Analytics by providing a reproducibility package in a shared OneDrive or Dropbox folder, a GitHub repository, or a compressed folder sent by email if the files size allows. If using a GitHub repository, please share only the code files through GitHub and send the input data files using another channel. The package should contain the items listed below.

	\bigskip

	\begin{itemize}
		\setlength\itemsep{-0.1em}

> 		\item \textbf{Code:} All scripts necessary to reproduce the analytical outputs of the paper, including a well-documented and well-commented Master Script that allows to perform a one-button run of the code.

Author: yeah, this is a mistake. It was corrected in c4b6fb0

		\item \textbf{Data:} Fully de-identified, no access-restricted, and complete data necessary to run the master script that reproduces the outputs (can be raw, clean, or constructed) . Any exception where access to restricted or identified datasets is needed to reproduce code outputs will be handled on a case-by-case basis.

> 		\item \textbf{Output:} All raw outputs used for the paper (tables and figures), as created by the master script.

Author: we always delete them before the first run of the code. Still, when an output is stable but different than the paper they're helpful because we can use them to:
1. verify that their raw outputs are the same as the paper. If not, this is a strong signal of version mismatch between code/data and paper
2. If the raw outputs are the same we can check the differences between them and our results using GitHub Desktop to see if some patterns emerge, like if all the discrepancies are in one column or row. It's easier to catch this in GH Desktop than manually

> 		\item \textbf{Output:} All raw outputs used for the paper (tables and figures), as created by the master script.

Author: in short, we don't need them strictly speaking but they provide useful additional info for the review

	\end{itemize}

	\bigskip

	Note: All the items listed above should be stored in different subfolders in the main project directory.

	\bigskip

	\begin{itemize}
		\setlength\itemsep{-0.1em}
		\item \textbf{Working Paper:} Paper to compare the output generated by the code with the exhibits as presented in the paper.

> 		\item \textbf{README.txt:} Text file delineating the requirements of the code and datasets included in the package, instructions about the directory structure DIME Analytics should follow, and any ad-hoc instructions to run the master script.

Author: added in 301ee6e

		\item \textbf{Filled-in reproducibility check checklist:} DIME Analytics ask submitting teams to provide \href{https://raw.githubusercontent.com/worldbank/dime-standards/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-3-research-reproducibility/checklists/Reproducibility%20package%20submission%20checklist.pdf}{this checklist} so they can make sure they are submitting all the files needed to run a reproducibility package.
	\end{itemize}

> 	DIME Analytics will only change the topmost global directory specified in the master script and will run it to reproduce the results – this is what is called a one-button run. The master script code should run without errors after adding the correct folder path of the computer where it will be running. For the paper to be considered fully reproducible, DIME Analytics should reproduce the every exhibit in the paper showing analysis results through this push-button exercise.

Author: added in 79802cc

> 	DIME Analytics will only change the topmost global directory specified in the master script and will run it to reproduce the results – this is what is called a one-button run. The master script code should run without errors after adding the correct folder path of the computer where it will be running. For the paper to be considered fully reproducible, DIME Analytics should reproduce the every exhibit in the paper showing analysis results through this push-button exercise.

Author: it's after. But now that you're mentioning it, perhaps we should start doing it at this stage. It would help to catch early if the code is not complete. It doesn't make sense to go on with the full review if the code is incomplete

> 	DIME Analytics will only change the topmost global directory specified in the master script and will run it to reproduce the results – this is what is called a one-button run. The master script code should run without errors after adding the correct folder path of the computer where it will be running. For the paper to be considered fully reproducible, DIME Analytics should reproduce the every exhibit in the paper showing analysis results through this push-button exercise.

Author: I added this to the one-button run in 284653e

	\bigskip

> 	After receiving a reproducibility package, DIME Analytics will attempt a first one-button run. If the master script breaks, DIME Analytics will identify the point where it is breaking, document it, and attempt to make changes to continue with the review. If the corrections cannot be identified after a 15-minute check, the project team will be notified that further edits are required to conduct the reproducibility check.

Author: corrected in b57f816

	\bigskip

	If the code runs from beginning to end, DIME Analytics will send the team an email confirming that we were able to run the code and providing an estimated time to deliver the results of the review. Reproducibility checks take ten working days (two weeks) in most cases, but might take longer for computationally intensive packages, packages with more than 1 GB of total file size, or when a large volume of submissions is received.

	\bigskip
	
	\begin{center}

> 		\includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{../img/rep-checks-timeline.png}

Author: added in 206932d

	\end{center}

	\subsection{2. \, Reproducibility check}

	After the one-button run works, DIME Analytics will check the following code requirements. The submission should pass all of these checks to be in compliance with DIME Reproducibility Standards.

	\bigskip

	\begin{itemize}
		\setlength\itemsep{-0.1em}

> 		\item \textbf{Code completeness:} Every paper exhibit containing analysis results should be produced programatically by the code and be a result of statistical analysis. Manual entry of values used in a table or plot, or point-and-click-generated exhibits are not in compliance with DIME Reproducibility Standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		\item \textbf{Code completeness:} Every paper exhibit containing analysis results should be produced programatically by the code and be a result of statistical analysis. Manual entry of values used in a table or plot, or point-and-click-generated exhibits are not in compliance with the computational reproducibility standard.
```

> 		\item \textbf{Code completeness:} Every paper exhibit containing analysis results should be produced programatically by the code and be a result of statistical analysis. Manual entry of values used in a table or plot, or point-and-click-generated exhibits are not in compliance with DIME Reproducibility Standards.

Author: > what does "and be a result of statistical analysis" mean?
I was trying to differentiate a case when teams can manually introduce values in a script to generate a table or plot, but I'm seeing now that that's already clarified in the next sentence. I'm deleting this

> 		\item \textbf{Code completeness:} Every paper exhibit containing analysis results should be produced programatically by the code and be a result of statistical analysis. Manual entry of values used in a table or plot, or point-and-click-generated exhibits are not in compliance with DIME Reproducibility Standards.

Author: added in 206932d

> 		\item \textbf{Output stability:} DIME Analytics will run the code between three to five times. Every output should be  identical across each run.

Reviewer: we usually also do on multiple machines right? but not necessarily multiple OS?

Author: that's correct. We almost always run the results in Windows

> 		\item \textbf{Computational reproducibility of tables:} Every statistic of every table needs to be consistent between the outputs produced by the code and the exhibits of the paper. Occasionally, stable marginal differences in point estimates and standard errors might not break adherence with DIME Reproducibility Standards and will be evaluated in a case-by-case basis to determine if they can occur for rounding differences due to hardware or OS specifications.

Reviewer: should we set a specific standard like differences of less than 0.001 will be noted but not rejected?

Author: I'd prefer to say that we'll evaluate them case-by-case. Differences in that magnitude can still be due to code instabilities.  Nonetheless, I'm changing this text from "stable marginal differences" to "stable differences of less than 0.001"

\input{checklist-header.tex}

% ------------------------------ End of preamble ---------------------------------------------
\begin{document}
	\begin{fullwidth}

\titleBox{
	\textcolor{white}{\LARGE{\textbf{DIME Analytics \\ Reproducibility Check Guidance Note}} \\
	\Large\textbf{{v2.0 - Last updated November 16, 2022}}}
}

	\section*{Reproducibility Check Guidance Note}

The reproducibility check verifies that the code package as submitted:

	\begin{enumerate}
		\setlength\itemsep{-0.1em}
		\item Is stable. It produces identical outputs each time it is run

> 		\item Produces outputs that exactly match the analytical outputs (tables and data visualizations) in the final manuscript, without manual adjustments

Reviewer: there's some gray area here though, no? My understanding is it's ok (though not encouraged) if they do some manual formatting as long as the results are the same (like we wouldn't want them to change the order of columns manually but changing the name or appearance of column headers would be ok)

Author: changed this line from
>Produces outputs that exactly match the analytical outputs (tables and data visualizations) in the final manuscript, without manual adjustments

to
> Produces outputs that match the analytical outputs (tables and data visualizations) in the final manuscript, without manual edits to numbers

in 3f063ff
